# LightBender
A LightBender is a form of FLS with an actuated rod as its lighting primitive.
A swarm of LightBenders illuminate graphics and animations visible to the naked eye.
When equipped with a cage, a LightBender facilitates safe, bare-hand interaction. 

Authors: Hamed Alimohammadzadeh(halimoha@usc.edu), Shuqin Zhu (shuqinzh@usc.edu), and Shahram Ghandeharizadeh (shahram@usc.edu)

Acknowledgments:  This research is supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. CMMI-2425754, CloudBank, and CloudLab. 

## Features

* Illuminations using a swarm of LightBenders, see below.
* Authoring tool in the form of a Blender add-on, see below and the instructions in the local [authoring](authoring/) directory.
* Bare-hand interaction with LightBenders, see below and the instructions in the local [Interaction](Interaction/) directory.
* Upload the video recording and log files generated by an illumination to a Google drive for further analysis, see [orchestrator](orchestrator/) directory.

## Illumination
An artist may manipulate per-LED color and brightness, rod segment angles, and 3D position of one or more LightBenders to implement different visual effects. 

### LightBender Visual Effects

We support 7 visual effects today: Pulse, Color Cycle, Sparkle, Color Chase, Draw/Erase, Fold, and Fly-out/in.
These may be applied to arbitrary words and line drawings using the Blender add-on provided in the local [authoring](authoring/) directory.
Fold is a novel effect that utilizes the actuated rods of a swarm of LightBenders to transition lines to drawings and words.
The effects are highlighted by the following video clips:

- [Visual effects with ACM, LA, and NSF.](https://youtu.be/jwrJeGCwS_M)  
- [ACM Illumination.](https://youtu.be/oepzLSos4Xo)  
- [LA Illumination.](https://youtu.be/p_fx22tXJf8)  
- [NSF Illumination.](https://youtu.be/o2t5xLuE0Hw)


## Interaction
A cage provides safe bare-hand interactions with a LightBender, preventing users' hand and fingers from coming in contact with a LightBender's blades.  The provided software runs on the Raspberry Pi of a LightBender.  It enables the LightBender to monitor its own velocity to detect when a user engages or disegages.  This decentralized implementation enables multiple users to interact with different LightBenders simultaneously.  The following video shows Shahram and Shuqin interacting with a happy emoji.

- [Interaction with happy emoji.](https://youtu.be/_huysBvEuR4)
- [Vertical interaction with a LightBender.](https://youtu.be/ilh584zCPyQ)

Bare-hand interactions have diverse applications ranging from health-care to education and entertainment.  Our Blender add-on enables one or more users to adjust the position of LightBenders in an illumination using their bare-hands.  For a video demonstration, see [authoring](authoring/) directory.
